Now we are going to
introduce you to Graphx,
which we'll primarily cover
as a hands-on presentation.
Graphx was developed by the Amp
lab at UC Berkeley, and
has now become an Apache product.
In this brief introduction, we are using
a few slides from Amp lab presentations.
Like [INAUDIBLE] graphic
uses a property graph model.
That means both nodes and
edges can have attributes and values.
In Graphx, the node properties
are stored in a Vertex Table.
And edge properties
are stored in an Edge Table.
The connectivity information, that is
which edge connects to which nodes,
is stored separately from the nodes and
edge properties.
Since Graphx is based on spark,
whose central information representation
is based on resilient data sets or RDDs.
You may recall that RDDs are typically
in memory information objects.
These objects can be used to perform
an action, which returns a value.
Or they can perform a transformation,
which can produce another RDD.
Graphx is built on special RDDs for
vertices and edges.
Note that VertexIDs are defined
to be unique by design.
VertexRDD A represents a set of vertices
all of which have an attribute called A.
The Edge class is an object with a source
vertex, a destination vertex, and
edge attribute.
The EdgeRDD extends this
basic edge by storing
edges in a columnar format on
each partition of performance.
Very often, it's easier to operate
on a data structure that has both
node properties and edge properties.
If you are familiar with this schema, you
will readily see that this is a three-way
join operation between the node set,
the edge set and the second node set.
Finally, GraphX implements
it's own version of BSP.
This implementation,
not surprisingly, is called Pregel.
It allows a user to write a vertex
program, a send message routine,
and a message combiner routine,
just like BSP.
However, this implementation also performs
vertex partitioning like
we saw in graph lab.
Also, similarly to graph lab,
it enables the message sending computation
to reach the attributes of both vertices.
The code limit shown here
is written in Scala.
The hands on code after this you'll
see are all certain in scatter.
Will have a notice here in no scatter.
We would like to show you
here an example which uses
the Pregel runtime object in GraphX
to implement the simple BSP desk.
We would like to show here how Pregel
runtime objects in Graphx works.
We point out all the functions
that are defined by users
in running the Pregel operation.
The vprogf function,
which takes a vertex and a message and
returns a new attribute value for
that vertex.
The sendMsgr function, which computes
the new message along each edge.
The Option[M] construct says that it is
optional for a vertex to send the message.
That is,
the system should not show an error
if your message is not sent for
the vertex.
The combinef function is
a message combiner that we
mention in passive for graph.
Finally, the user can also specify
the number of reiterations that
the GraphX BSP process will run for.